# Access Control (ACL)

## Review, Research, and Discussion

**When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?**

Basic Authorization is used to find a user in the database and validate that their password is correct. Bearer Authorization is used to validate the token exchanged between the client and the server. 

**What does the JSON Web Token package do?**

JSON Web Token package is how we authenticate tokens in our application. 

**What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?**

* Never store unencrypted secrets in .git repositories
* Avoid git add * commands on git
* Add sensitive files in .gitignore
* use .env to store your secret
* use short lived secrets

[GitGuardian](https://blog.gitguardian.com/secrets-api-management/)

## Vocabulary Terms

| Term      | Definition |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| encryption     | the process of hiding information and making it more difficult to read  |
| token   | "security credentials for a login session and identifies the user, the user's groups, the user's privileges"      |
| bearer      | "cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request"   |
| secret   | information only known to the parties involved used in authorization    |
| JSON Web Token   | "a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object"     |

## Preview

**Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?**

1). Curried functions

2). Authorization

3). Building the user model with basic auth and bearer auth functions

**Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?**

1). How to add authorization to my app

2). Why my basic auth is breaking from yesterday's lab

3). More practice with modularizing code and testing

**What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?**

I'm excited to add authentication to our app today. 

#### Sources


[JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction)

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_token)

[Back to Homepage](../README.md)