# AWS: Cloud Servers

## Review, Research, and Discussion

**Describe the Web-Request-Response-Cycle**

1). user gives client a URL  
2). client builds request to be generated by server  
3). server receives request and builds a response containing requested info  
4). the response is sent to the client to be rendered to the user  

**Explain what a “server” is, as it relates to the WRRC**

The server receives a request from the client and builds a response containing the requested information. Then the server, sends this information in the requested format back to the client to be rendered to the user.  

**What does it mean to “deploy” an application?**

"Application Deployment (also referred to as Software Deployment) is the process of installing, configuring, and enabling a specific application or set of applications, usually through an application manager (app manager) or software management system, to a specific URL on a server. Once the process of deploying the application(s) has been completed it becomes publicly accessible on the URL."

*source:* [Application deployment](https://www.dialogic.com/glossary/application-deployment-)

## Vocabulary Terms

| Term      | Definition |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Server     | "computer hardware or software that provides functionality for other programs or devices, called clients" |
| Pub/Sub   | "Publish/Subscribe messaging is a form of asynchronous service-to-service communication used in serverless and microservices architectures" |
| WRRC      | Web Request Response Cycle |

## Preview

**Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?**

1). Virtual Machines

2). WRRC

3). server

**Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?**

1). AWS

2). TCP Handshakes

3). Socket.io

**What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?**

Learning more about AWS.  

### Sources

[Server Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing))

[Pub/Sub Messaging](https://aws.amazon.com/pub-sub-messaging/#:~:text=Publish%2Fsubscribe%20messaging%2C%20or%20pub,the%20subscribers%20to%20the%20topic.)

[Back to Homepage](../README.md)